		
                                                             
				Practical no.1
		
Aim: Installation of DHCP Server in Ubuntu 16.04

Theory:
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol(DHCP) is a network management protocol used to automate the process
of configuring devices on IP networks.
A DHCP server dynamically assigns an IP address and other network configuration parameters to each
device on a network so they can communicate with other IP networks.
The main purpose of DHCP is to automate the management and configuration IP addresses across a network, so 
that IPs don't need to be manually assigned by an admin each time a device connects.
DHCP is a network management tool that works alongside two other protocols, namely the Transmission Control
Protocol (TCP) and the Internet Protocol (IP), both of which are required in order to connect devices to each other and to a network.

Every device on a TCP/IP-based network must have a unique unicast IP address to access the network
and its resources. 

DHCP-enabled clients send a request to the DHCP server whenever they connect to a network.

ADVANTAGES of DHCP:-
1. Centralized management of IP addresses.
2.The implementation does not require any additional costs.
3.Simplifies administration of the network.
4.Ease of adding new clients to a network.


DISADVANTAGES of DHCP:-
1..DHCP server can be single point of failure in networks having only one configured DHCP server.
2.Client is not able to access the network in the absence of the DHCP server.
3. The machine name does not change when new IP address is assigned.


Steps to install the DHCP Server
1.Install dhcp-server using :  
  Command:  kali@mihir:~$sudo apt install -y isc-dhcp-server

2.Configure your dhcpd.conf by directly editing through a path : 
   Command: kali@mihir:~$sudo nano/etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf

3.Checking your ip address by: 
   Command: $kali@mihir:~$ip addr

4.We then configure the subnet and the netmask(dhcpd.conf),then just save the file and exit

5.Enable the services :
   Command: kali@mihir:~$sudo systemctl enable isc-dhcp-server.service

6.Begin the service : 
   Command: kali@mihir:~$sudo systemctl start isc-dhcp-server.service